Axom Dev Guide Updates (#1430)
LLNL/axom: src/docs/sphinx/dev_guide/updating_tpls.rst

following:

* Set of libraries with version of each and compile-time options
* Compilers, versions, and compiler flags
* Structure and permissions of installation directory structure and files

===========================================
Build Scripts and Configuration Files
===========================================

There are three levels of build scripts or programs that drive Axom TPL builds.
As you move up levels, away from Spack, the scripts require less configuration
and can build multiple sets of TPLs and/or Axom configurations with a single
script invocation.

The following sections provide brief descriptions of what each level does and 
what important configuration and input files it uses. The sections appear from 
lowest level to highest.

After these levels are described, we discuss Axom development processes that use them.

Level 1: Spack
--------------

Spack is a multi-platform package manager that builds and installs multiple versions
and configurations of software packages. It has recipes for building each package
with available variants to customize it to your needs. For example, Axom
has variants for Fortran, MPI, and others. The recipes drive

> the individual packages build systems and manage packages they depend on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the individual packages' build systems and manage packages they depend on.
```
package, plural, possessive

Author: Thanks. Fixed.

Spack also handles system level packages, so you can describe where they are on your

> system instead of building them from scratch. You will need to describe which compilers

Reviewer: What?  Only single-space between sentences? : )

are available on your system as well.

* Platform specific configuration files live under ``axom/scripts/spack/configs/<platform name>``.
  There is one file (``spack.yaml``) per platform that has sections describing:

   * ``compilers``: This section contains the compiler specs that describe the location
     and any other required information for each compiler. For example, a compiler spec
     contains compiler and version, build and linker flags, etc.
   * ``packages``: This section describes system level packages. For example, version and
     location on the filesystem. This file is very important
     due to its ability to drastically reduce the number of packages that Spack builds.

* Axom specific Spack package files live under ``axom/scripts/spack/packages``. These override
  the package files in Spack's repository under ``var/spack/repos/builtin/packages``.
  We try to minimize these, but we often have to alter the existing Spack packages to: apply fixes
  before pushing them up to Spack proper, or alter recipes in ways that are Axom specific.
  Such overrides do not happen at the Spack level, but at the next level, Uberenv 

>   described below.

Reviewer: I suggest:
- remove the colon from "to: apply fixes"
- remove the comma from "up to Spack proper, or alter recipes"
- either add a comma, making it "the next level, Uberenv, described below," or add parentheses, making it "the next level, Uberenv (described below)."

The last point is needed because "described below" is an adjective phrase modifying "Uberenv."  Without the comma or the parens, overrides happen at the noun phrase "Uberenv described below" which makes less sense.

Author: Got it. Change made.

     the top level package to install.

* More detailed information about Uberenv can be found in the 
  `Uberenv GitHub repo <https://github.com/LLNL/uberenv>`_
  and in the `Uberenv documentation <https://uberenv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_

.. note::
   Uberenv warnings and errors are easy to find by searching the output for ``[ERROR:``
   or ``[Warning:``.  Unlike Spack, Uberenv will stop at the first error it encounters.

Level 3: Build Scripts
----------------------

The file ``axom/scripts/spack/specs.json`` contains a list of all specs
that we share for Axom development and GitLab CI testing on the LC platforms
we use for development and testing. The specs automatically handle
platform differences and contain the full list of compilers and package specs
required to build.

The directory ``axom/scripts/llnl_scripts`` contains three "build" scripts that
are designed to build suites of TPLs via Uberenv and Spack.

* ``build_tpls.py``: First, this script builds a set of TPLs for each of the specs
  listed in the ``specs.json`` file for the platform on which it is run. For each TPL set,
  it will generate a host-config file and copy it to the top-level directory of the local

>   copy of the Axom repository in which the script is run. After building all of TPL sets
>   for a platform, it will test Axom against those TPL installs as well as the ``using-with-cmake``
>   example for correctness. This script stops at the first failed TPL build but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  copy of the Axom repository in which the script is run. After building all TPL sets
  for a platform, it will attempt to build Axom and the ``using-with-cmake`` example against 
  each set of TPLs. This script stops at the first failed TPL build but
```

Author: Recommended change pushed.

  attempts to build the Axom source will each host-config. It will output a summary at
  the end indicating which Axom build succeeded or failed.
* ``build_src.py``: This script uses the existing host-configs in your local clone of the
  Axom repo, or a specific one you point at, and builds and tests Axom against them. It also

>   tests the ``using-with-cmake`` example.

Reviewer 2: Possibly helpful clarification:

```suggestion
  tests axom installation via the ``using-with-cmake`` example and axom tutorials.
```

Author: Got it. Thank you.

* ``build_devtools.py``: This script builds and installs the developer tools
  listed in the ``axom/scripts/spack/packages/axomdevtools/package.py`` Spack
  package. It uses the set of Spack configs located in the
  ``axom/scripts/spack/devtools_config`` directory, so that the regular Spack configs
  can reuse previously built developer tools.

.. note::
   Due to the large amount of information printed to the screen during a full build, the build scripts
   redirect most build step output to log files. This output will tell you what command is being run,

>    i.e., ``[EOE: some/command --with-options]``, and will tell you the log file being written

Reviewer: EOE?

Author: Good lord. What was I doing?!?

Built-in TPLs
-------------

Axom uses several lightweight, header-only libraries internally, which are
exposed for downstream customers to use if they wish. These are:

  * `CLI11 <https://github.com/CLIUtils/CLI11>`_, a command line parser
    for C++ and beyond that provides a rich feature set with a simple and
    intuitive interface.
  * `fmt <https://github.com/fmtlib/fmt>`_, an open-source formatting
    library providing a fast and safe alternative to C stdio and C++ iostreams.
  * `sol <https://github.com/ThePhD/sol2>`_, a C++ library binding to Lua.
  * `Sparsehash <https://github.com/sparsehash/sparsehash>`_, which contains
    several hash-map implementations.

.. note:: Axom patches its built-in TPLs so that they reside in the ``axom`` namespace
   which prevents symbol collisions with other projects, either our
   dependencies or downstream customers who wish to use their own versions.  For
   example, ``fmt::format("foo")`` is ``axom::fmt::format("foo")``.

These TPLs are located in the directory: ``axom/src/thirdparty/axom``. The basic 
instructions on how to update a built-in TPL are:

#. Download the new release and override the source that is already there.

>    This may involve removing files no-longer needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This may involve removing files no longer needed.
```
(minor suggestion for style and clarity)

Author: Fixed.

if issues arise. The generated host-config files will be placed in the top-level Axom
directory of your local clone of the repo. If any changes to Axom code are 
needed to work with the TPL update(s), make the changes there and test them.

.. note:: You can build a subset of TPLs for a platform, by using the ``uberenv.py``
           script in the top-level Axom directory. For example:: 

            python3 ./scripts/uberenv/uberenv.py --prefix /my/tpl/path --spec clang@10.0.0~cpp14+devtools+mfem+c2c

          will build the TPLs for the clang 10.0.0 compiler, install them
          to the ``/my/tpl/path`` directory, and generate a host-config file
          that you can use to build Axom and its tests. Please see the
          ``scripts/spack/specs.json`` file for a current list of TPL specs
          we use for GitLab CI testing.

Shared Third-party Library Installation Steps
---------------------------------------------

The following instructions describe how to install copies of Axom TPL builds
on Livermore Computing (LC) platforms and recreate our Docker containers
with a new set of TPLs. Typically, this process is followed when you want to 

> update one or more TPLs on which Axom depends. After they are built and

Reviewer: Possibly:
```suggestion
update one or more TPLs. After they are built and
```
They're our TPLs.  We don't have to say again that we depend on them.

Author: Thank you. Fixed.

#. **Install TPLs on all required LC machines.**

   When you are confident that everything is correct and working, you will need
   to perform this step on each of the machines named in Axom's standard host-configs.

   .. important:: To install TPL builds to be shared by all Axom developers and used 
                  in our GitLab CI, you will need to become the Axom service user ``atk``.
                  There is a clone of the Axom repo in the ``/usr/workspace/atk/axom_repo``
                  directory. After becoming ``atk``, you can go into that directory and
                  switch to the branch you made to test your changes. Before running the

>                   TPL builds, make sure the branch is updated, including all submodules.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that this is only applicable to the subset of axom developers who can become `atk` ?

Author: I think that's implied since the /usr/workspace/atk directory is not accessible if you do not `xsu atk` and only members of the team can do that.  

The main point I was trying to make is that you really need to become atk and use that clone of the repo to build and install the shared TPLs.
